# June 2023

[Holochain](https://www.holochain.org/) is graciously sponsoring improvements
to the Darwin situation in Nixpkgs for six months. They leverage Nix for
development environments and value being able to do so across both Linux and
macOS.

@reckenrode has been doing great work on the stdenv with the goal of decoupling
it from the bootstrap-tools. So far the LLVM version in the Darwin stdenv was
tied to the version included in the bootstrap-tools. [The rework of the
stdenv](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/240433) makes it possible to bump
the LLVM in the stdenv independently from the bootstrap-tools. This [took a lot
of work](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/issues/234710) so I focused on
unblocking it. The rework PR got merged in the meantime and [more work's
underway to bump LLVM](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/241692).

There was [another
discussion](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/darwin-again/29331) on how some
maintainers experience Nixpkgs' Darwin support as a burden. My main takeaway is
that people want a team to contact for Darwin issues that block Linux channel
progress.

I've also resumed work on the stdenv bump. The source releases are a tangled
mess of things (sometimes mutually) depending on each other. So we don't want
to bump individual source releases incrementally. But the full bump grew to
over 130 commits (this is after some householding) and that's a bit rough for
the review process. So I've settled on a plan of introducing new versions of
the source releases alongside the current ones. This way I can split the bump
into small PRs focussing on individual releases and then when all of the
releases have been merged, we can switch the entire set over all at once.
